README.md, before:

This solution allows you to access your [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/mac/)'s internal networks directly from your macOS host machine, using OpenVPN.


## Quickstart

To access your Docker networks:

 * Install [Tunnelblick](https://tunnelblick.net/downloads.html) (open source macOS OpenVPN client that sits in your menubar)
 * Run `docker-compose up`. The first time it will take up to a minute to startup, because it needs to generate keys.
 * Doubleclick the generated `docker-for-mac.ovpn` in Finder (or run `open docker-for-mac.ovpn` in your terminal) to add it to Tunnelblick. You will find it in the current folder.
 * In Tunnelblick, connect to your new docker-for-mac profile.

You will now be able to access the internal Docker networks from macOS.


## Implementation notes

The Compose configuration consists of two services, both based on the tiny Alpine Linux distribution. 


### openvpn

The OpenVPN image used is [kylemanna/openvpn](https://hub.docker.com/r/kylemanna/openvpn/).

Both server-side and client-side configuration are automatically generated by `helpers/run.sh`, which calls the helper scripts in original image and adjust configuration for accessing the Docker for Mac networks only.

This service runs on TCP port 1194 using *host* networking, which means it has access to all Docker networks in the host VM.

Only the `172.16.0.0/20` private network is routed to Docker for Mac by the generated config. No DNS servers are set on the host.

The OpenVPN configuration (`/etc/openvpn/*`) is stored locally in `./config/` so that it survives Docker filesystem resets and allows for easy customization.

### proxy

Since containers running in host networking mode in Docker for Mac cannot bind ports to make them accessible from macOS, we need an extra TCP proxy. This image uses socat to forward port 13194 to the OpenVPN container.

## Tips

 * Add `restart: always` to both services in `docker-compose.yml` to have them automaticaly restart.
 * To route extra subnets, add extra `route` statements in your `docker-for-mac.ovpn`
 * To setup static IP addresses for containers, check the `app_net` examples in the [Compose file reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/)
 * To regenerate all files, remove `config/*` and `docker-for-mac.ovpn`

Commit message:

Add note about Shimo to README

README.md, after:

This solution allows you to access your [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/mac/)'s internal networks directly from your macOS host machine, using OpenVPN.


## Quickstart

To access your Docker networks:

 * Install [Tunnelblick](https://tunnelblick.net/downloads.html) (open source macOS OpenVPN client that sits in your menubar)
 * Run `docker-compose up`. The first time it will take up to a minute to startup, because it needs to generate keys.
 * Doubleclick the generated `docker-for-mac.ovpn` in Finder (or run `open docker-for-mac.ovpn` in your terminal) to add it to Tunnelblick. You will find it in the current folder.
 * In Tunnelblick, connect to your new docker-for-mac profile.

You will now be able to access the internal Docker networks from macOS.


## Implementation notes

The Compose configuration consists of two services, both based on the tiny Alpine Linux distribution. 


### openvpn

The OpenVPN image used is [kylemanna/openvpn](https://hub.docker.com/r/kylemanna/openvpn/).

Both server-side and client-side configuration are automatically generated by `helpers/run.sh`, which calls the helper scripts in original image and adjust configuration for accessing the Docker for Mac networks only.

This service runs on TCP port 1194 using *host* networking, which means it has access to all Docker networks in the host VM.

Only the `172.16.0.0/20` private network is routed to Docker for Mac by the generated config. No DNS servers are set on the host.

The OpenVPN configuration (`/etc/openvpn/*`) is stored locally in `./config/` so that it survives Docker filesystem resets and allows for easy customization.

### proxy

Since containers running in host networking mode in Docker for Mac cannot bind ports to make them accessible from macOS, we need an extra TCP proxy. This image uses socat to forward port 13194 to the OpenVPN container.

## Using Shimo instead of Tunnelblick

[Shimo](https://www.shimovpn.com) is a proprietary alternative to Tunnelblick.
Shimo can be used to open `docker-for-mac.ovpn` but by default, all network traffic is routed through the VPN.
To avoid this, edit the VPN account in Shimo and then click "Advanced" and untick "Send all traffic over VPN".

## Tips

 * Add `restart: always` to both services in `docker-compose.yml` to have them automaticaly restart.
 * To route extra subnets, add extra `route` statements in your `docker-for-mac.ovpn`
 * To setup static IP addresses for containers, check the `app_net` examples in the [Compose file reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/)
 * To regenerate all files, remove `config/*` and `docker-for-mac.ovpn`
